[mellow music]
(Garibaldi)
'Captain, I just thought
you should know.'
They've got your dad, John.
They traced him through
his medication, picked him up
at a safe house two days ago
just outside of Chicago.
Now look, we've got a couple
days before they can move
on this and we should be
able to break him out.
Now, I've got some
people who can help
but they want a meeting.
I mean it, John, I don't
like the way this sounds
I don't like the way it looks,
I don't like anything about it.
I mean, it stinks of a setup.
(Garibaldi)
Michael and I have
had our problems lately
but he has never
given me reason to think
he meant me harm.
Alright.
What do you want me to do?
You've already done it.
It's a tranq.
- 'Don't fight it.'
- What are you..
Just give it up
or they're gonna hurt you.
[intense music]
Do you have any allergies or
illnesses I should be aware of?
Are you currently
taking any medication?
'Have you had any trouble
with your heart?'
When I ask a question,
you will respond at once.
You will not hesitate, you will
not consider, you will not lie.
Cooperation will be rewarded.
Resistance will be punished.
'Do you understand?'
[electricity crackling]
Aah!
Pain givers.
We bought them from the Narn
during the war.
They're most effective.
'If you come within three feet
of me, you will be hurt.'
'If you come within two feet'
'you will be
rendered unconscious.'
Well, there's nothing to be
gained by trying to harm me.
I am not the enemy.
To be the enemy,
I must have some personal stake
in what happens to you.
'I'm not interested
in that at all.'
I'm here to do a job,
nothing more.
You are a name,
a file and a case number.
That is all.
Aah!
I have no desire to inflict pain
but I will do so when
and as it is required.
The level of discomfort
you experience
will be entirely up to you.
I'm not here to negotiate
or to assist you.
Then why are you here?
To ensure your cooperation.
To that end, I will use whatever
means I feel are appropriate.
'Do you understand?'
[grunting]
No. No.
[groans]
[grunts]
It was a simple enough question.
There's no reason
to endure all this
just to determine if you have
a grasp of English.
So, do you understand?
'Do you have any allergies or
illnesses I should be aware of?'
Are you currently
taking any medication?
Have you had any problems
with your heart?
No.
Good.
Then...we can begin.
(Lennier)
It was the year of fire.
(Zack)
The year of destruction.
(G'Kar)
The year we took back
what was ours.
(Lyta)
It was the year of rebirth.
(Vir)
The year of great sadness.
(Marcus)
The year of pain.
(Delenn)
And a year of joy.
(Londo)
It was a new age.
(Franklin)
It was the end of history.
(Ivanova)
It was the year
everything changed.
(Garibaldi)
The year is 2261.
The place..
(Sheridan)
Babylon 5.
[theme music]
[music continues]
[intense music]
Good morning.
- Good morning.
- It's not morning.
- It isn't?
- No.
And how do you know that?
When you came in before,
I saw daylight through the door.
When you came in now,
it's...dark outside.
Daylight?
You mean, uh...that?
Well, if that's daylight
and, uh, that's night
then we may as well assume
that this is morning again.
Good morning.
I'd forget my head
if it wasn't nailed on.
Which reminds me.
[groans]
Never contradict me.
Mm-hm.. Hmm..
'Hmm..'
Mmm..
Oh, my, look at the time.
Mm..
[sighs]
Hmm..
You know, this is interesting.
I hadn't seen this before.
During your time at the academy
'and all your years
during the war'
afterwards you never showed any
particular interest
in politics so..
...you don't consider yourself
to be political?
- No.
- That's interesting. Yes.
That's very interesting.
You see,
that's what they thought.
'That's why you're here.'
'If you never showed any
particular interest in politics'
then it's not likely that
you'd start running around
trying to overthrow
your own government
unless you had been under
the influence of outsiders.
'Is that a fair thing to say?'
That, uh, you've been under
the influence of other people?
- No.
- No. Really?
I find that most remarkable.
I mean, aren't we all
under the influence of others?
It's part of being in the world.
Somebody in the office
is in a bad mood
pretty soon
everybody's in a bad mood.
We're all
influenced by other people.
You've really never been
influenced by anyone else?
Are you that far removed
from other people?
Well..
...no matter.
I'll put it down
as, uh, your first fabrication.
Mmm, this is really
excellent corned beef.
'Mm.'
You have to get
just the right mustard.
The brown with the seeds,
not the yellow kind
and not too much of it.
If there's too much, it, um
irritates the corners
of my mouth.
Mm.
Oh, would, uh..
...would you like some?
I know they haven't fed you
since you got here.
That's at least two days.
Besides it's lunchtime.
Isn't it? Isn't it lunchtime?
You-you just said
it was morning.
Well, you can't have
a corned beef sandwich
for breakfast.
It would upset your stomach.
Corned beef sandwiches
are for lunch.
If it's morning, you can't have
it. If it's lunchtime, you can.
Is it lunchtime?
I'm sure
it's lunchtime somewhere.
Excellent answer.
Here.
'I ate half of that myself.'
Killing you
does nobody any good.
I told you, I'm here
to ensure your cooperation
and I can't do that
if you're dead, now can I?
'It does prove, though'
'how everything
is a matter of perspective.'
You see
what you think is daylight
and you assume it's morning
take it away,
you think it's night.
Offer you a sandwich,
if it's convenient
you'll think it's midday.
The truth is fluid.
The truth is subjective.
'Out there, it doesn't matter
what time it is.'
In here, it's lunchtime
if you and I decide that it is.
The truth is sometimes
what you believe it to be
and other times
what you decide it to be.
My task is to make you..
...decide to believe
differently.
And when that happens..
...the world will remake itself
before your very eyes.
- Not a chance.
- No?
You've done it before.
- When?
- When haven't you?
When you were a soldier,
you fought the Minbari.
The Minbari were the enemy.
That was the truth.
And then one day someone said
the Minbari are no longer
the enemy,
and that was the truth.
And you not only accepted them
as allies, you embraced them.
You took one of them as a lover.
It's not the way--
You swore an oath to Earthforce
because you believed in it.
That was the truth.
Now Earthforce is supposed
to be the enemy.
Now that is the truth.
It all depends on
what you believe
and what other people
tell you to believe.
The truth is fluid.
The truth is subjective.
- No!
- Governments make policy.
Soldiers have to accept those
policies
even when they're completely
contradictory.
'It's the very definition
of your job.'
A soldier accepts
that the face of truth
changes on a daily basis
unless you're rejecting
everything that you said
you stood for.
Is that what you're doing?
Mm.
Thanks for the sandwich.
You're right.
The corned beef is perfect.
The mustard's a little weak
for my tastes.
Now you're being evasive.
It's better
than being dishonest.
Really?
You said it was lunchtime,
even though you knew
almost certainly
that it was not.
You said that you've never been
influenced by other people
and you and I both know
that's impossible.
I, however, have spoken the
utter and unvarnished truth
from the moment
I came through that door.
Now, which one of us
is being dishonest?
I just remembered
it's time for supper.
You know,
about that sandwich, captain..
...it's a funny thing
about toxins.
I've always felt that if you eat
a little poison every day..
...you get used to it.
'It desensitizes you
until you can swallow'
large amounts of it
with no difficulty whatsoever.
I've always thought that
that was a metaphor.
I could just
never decide what for.
The contents of the sandwich
will not kill you.
As I said,
they want you alive for now
but the toxins will begin
having their desired effects
in just a few minutes.
I'll be back when they've had a
chance to clean up the place.
[coughing]
Good morning.
How are we feeling? Hmm?
Poison's all flushed out?
Well, let's see.
'Yes. It must have been
a rough night.'
The jaundice will pass
in a couple of hours.
I'm sorry I had to do that.
Part of the process.
We have to break you physically
before we can get to your mind.
Personally,
I find it distasteful and crude
but they don't listen to me.
Well, actually,
they do listen to me.
They listen to both of us.
My superiors monitor
all of the interrogation rooms
randomly throughout the day.
If they don't
see some indication
that you're
willing to cooperate..
...well,
I can't be held responsible
for the consequences.
The best thing for you
to do is cooperate.
They'll let you go then.
You're dehydrated,
which is not surprising
'considering that
you just upchucked'
'everything you've been eating
for the last four days.'
'This'll help.'
You need to build
your salts back up
restore your body's fluids.
'Here.'
Captain, I've told you the truth
from the beginning.
Now I'm telling you
that this is safe.
Understand..
...I'm the one and only ally
you have in this place.
'I won't lie to you.'
What I tell you
will be the absolute truth.
This is safe.
Drink it.
'I recommend taking it
in small sips to start with'
until your body adjusts.
We don't want a repeat of what
happened last night, now do we?
'I've been going over
your files the last night.'
'I found some omissions
that, uh, we need to correct.'
There are just a few
bookkeeping points
nothing
of a compromising nature.
[sighs]
Your second in command..
Her name was Susan Ivanova?
Is that correct?
[coughing]
Earth has all the records.
Well, yes, but only up until
the time you broke away.
After that,
everything gets a little fuzzy.
We just need to confirm her name
for the records.
There's no harm in that.
No reason you shouldn't tell me.
- Oh. Sure, there is.
- And why is that?
Because you want it.
I told you, I don't want
anything. I really don't care.
But my superiors don't like
blank spaces in their records.
They want everything neat,
tidy and complete.
- 'Feeling better?'
- A little.
Good. Then, perhaps,
you'd care to join me?
[groans]
- Wh..
- It's for your own good.
Don't want you to hurt yourself.
'Oh, uh, and by the way,
I should mention'
your father..
He sends his regards.
'He's being held at another
facility a few miles from here'
and one of my associates
is, uh, handling his case.
When I stopped by to pick up
your report
I, um, passed him in the hall.
- Then he's still alive.
- Alive and well.
- Why are you telling me this?
- 'Why not?'
I told you, I have no vested
interest in helping you
or harming you
as long as the job gets done.
He made a request,
it didn't go against my orders
so I passed it along.
Thank you would be
the appropriate response.
Thank you.
Yes, I imagine that we'll only
hold him as long as we hold you
but, of course, that means
that as long as you continue
to resist, we can't let him go.
You've been interrogated before?
Yes.
Anyone I know?
You'd be surprised.
Well, it's certainly strange.
You don't seem
to know the rules.
Perhaps, I should explain them
in case you've forgotten.
This is your confession.
It goes on at some length.
So, uh, allow me to summarize.
You plead guilty to charges
of treason, mutiny
conspiracy to commit mutiny,
sedition, terrorism--
That's a lie.
Conspiracy to overthrow
the government
illegal seizure
of Earth property
assault on fellow officers.
- 'Sabotage..'
- Now, just a minute.
'Willful destruction
of public property'
disobeying direct
orders of superior officers
and the murder of 547 officers
and crew on board
the EAS Roanoke.
- I won't sign it!
- You will sign it!
You will sign it,
and you will read it aloud
in full view of the public
so they'll know that
we haven't forged your image
or your signature.
You will name your accomplices,
you will apologize
to the families and friends
of those who died fighting you
and in the end, you will
beg for mercy on the grounds
that you're under
the influence of aliens
who are trying to subvert
the government
and undermine the authority
of the president.
I demand to see an attorney!
I demand the presence
of a full military tribunal!
- You have no right!
- No, you have no rights!
There's no courtroom here,
captain.
No tribunals, no attorneys,
no justice, no mercy
no fairness, no hope
'no last-minute escape.'
You will walk through that door
when you confess
and not one second before!
Good morning.
[intense music]
[coughing]
There, now.
That should do it.
Now, would you please repeat
what you told one of our
other interrogators last night?
I was one of those
who was responsible
for manipulating
Captain Sheridan
into turning against
his own government.
Don't do this.
I confess to taking part
in a conspiracy
to overturn your government.
You're giving them
exactly what they want.
Precisely, and when he's done,
he'll be able to leave.
Continue. We can edit out
the interruptions later.
Those who worked with me
in this conspiracy..
...were
Commander Susan Ivanova..
...Minbari Ambassador Delenn..
...Senator Ross Fowler.
He's not actually
involved in any of this
but he's recently
become a source of annoyance
to the president.
Waste not, want not.
I can personally verify all
of the charges against him.
However, Captain Sheridan was
not responsible for his actions.
He was not..
- Mentally competent--
- Stop it!
Listen to me! Listen to me.
Now, I don't know
what they did to you in here.
I know it must have been
terrible
but it's all out here.
It's all flesh.
Now, I know you feel
that they've won
but as long as you don't break
inside, they can't win.
Don't do this.
He's trying to save you trouble,
captain. He's your alibi.
He's the one chance
you have of avoiding
the death penalty
for your actions.
I know the Drazi.
I've worked with your people.
I fought alongside them
in the war.
'You're a strong race,
a proud race.'
You'll bend,
but you don't break.
The ones that have
done this to you
they are the ones
that have been broken.
- There is nothing I can do.
- Yes, there is!
You can fight.
You can refuse to surrender.
You can refuse to be broken.
You just have to say,
"No, I won't" one more time
than they can say,
"Yes, you will."
Captain..
The moment you surrender,
you become expendable.
I'm afraid.
I've never been afraid before.
We're all afraid.
Don't give them what they want.
Don't.
I have nothing more to say.
I will not cooperate
any further.
Are you sure?
Do you understand
that this is your last chance?
What are you doing?
Do you understand that this
is your very last chance?
Yes.
Oh, no, no, no.
No, let him go.
He's done nothing to you.
I've never even seen him
before in my life.
He's got nothing to do
with this.
For God's sakes, let him go.
'No.'
Room 17.
Now, I was asking you
about Commander Ivanova.
What are you gonna do with him?
It's nothing you need
to concern yourself with.
Now, about your contacts
with the Resistance.
If you could provide me with,
say, three or four names
it would go a long way toward
convincing my superiors--
I said, what are you going
to do with him?
[sighs]
You must understand
he was expendable
from the moment he arrived.
We are all expendable.
'Just parts in a machine.'
You're lucky.
You were deemed non-expendable
when you got here.
Even I don't fall
into that category.
But the patience of my superiors
is not without limit.
'You are alive
because it's convenient'
and because they want you
honestly and sincerely broken
in case someone scans you.
It has to be a sincere apology.
This will encourage
the others who worked with you
to reconsider their position.
It would save us a tremendous
amount of time and trouble.
Unless you become an even
greater source
of time and trouble.
[Drazi screaming]
I'm sorry they had to do that.
But as I told you,
it's not my choice.
[automated message]
'You will cooperate
with the state for the good'
'of the state
and your own survival.'
'You will confess to the crimes
of which you have been accused.'
'You will be released
and return to society'
'a productive citizen
if you cooperate.'
'Resistance will be punished.
Cooperation will be rewarded.'
(male #1)
'Goodnight.
I'll see you in the morning.'
[automated message]
'You will cooperate with the
state for the good of the state'
'and your own survival.'
'You will confess to the crimes
of which you have been accused.'
'You will be released
and return to society'
'a productive citizen
if you cooperate.'
'You will cooperate with the
state for the good of the state'
'and your own survival.'
'You will confess to the crimes
of which you have been accused.'
'You will be released
and return to society'
'a productive citizen
if you cooperate.'
'Resistance will be punished.
Cooperation will be rewarded.'
Good morning.
I should tell you that
unless you begin to cooperate
you won't be receiving
any more intravenous nutrition.
It's bad enough they had me
take you off solid food.
Don't compound
the error further.
That piece of paper..
...and a few words
from you are all
that's standing
between you and that door.
'Don't you see
how foolish this is?'
I'm not keeping you here.
They're not keeping you here.
You're keeping you here.
And are you suicidal
or simply self-destructive
preferring to let us
do the work for you?
Don't you want to leave?
'Don't you want to be free?'
Walk through that door?
Feel the sun on your face again?
- Yes.
- 'Then sign it and speak.'
'That's all. Then you can go.'
They don't want you dead.
They want you as a symbol,
not a martyr.
As a warning to others.
- Then you'll kill me.
- No.
Absolutely not.
I told you
I won't lie to you.
No, they'll come
for you eventually.
But they'll wait
until you've been forgotten.
'Until your fate no longer
means anything to anyone.'
They'll come in the night.
It will be very quick.
But until that time..
...you will have your freedom.
If anything,
they'll encourage you to travel
so that more people
can see you as..
...as a symbol of the
pre-eminent truth of our time..
...that you cannot
beat the system.
'I'm telling you the truth.'
'Sign and speak,
and you can leave here.'
It's really that simple.
'I know you can do it.'
'I know you want to do it.'
Well?
No.
I..
I really wish you hadn't done
that, captain.
I really..
...sincerely wish..
...you hadn't done that.
I, I..
I have no control over
what will happen next.
It's out of my hands.
[dramatic music]
Right.
Now, listen to me. Wake up.
There's something
you have to understand. Focus.
Focus on me.
Do you know why
they're doing this to you?
Because you're a war hero,
one of the few to come out
'of the Minbari War.'
They've invested a considerable
amount of time and effort
making you a hero
in the public's eye.
The problem is, when a war hero
starts believing certain things
and saying certain things,
the public listens.
They figure maybe
there's something to it.
Your credibility has become
a threat to their credibility.
So one of them has to go.
The best way out for everyone
is for you to confess
and lay the blame
for what's happened
'at the feet
of the alien government.'
'Whether it's true or not,
it doesn't matter.'
'Truth is immaterial.
They can sell it.'
And they will let you live.
Note,
I said, it is the best way.
I did not say,
it was the only way.
The other way, captain,
is a Posthumous Confession.
Your signature is not a problem.
They have your image on file.
They can create you
reading the confession.
Now, that's not as good
as having you where people
can see you,
so they know it's true that
even you can be broken,
you cannot resist.
With a video record,
there will always be doubt.
It's not the same
as breaking you
but I'm told that
as of this morning..
...it is an acceptable option.
I can save your life.
Right now.
If you'll let me.
You know, it's funny.
I was thinking about
what you said.
The pre-eminent truth
of our age is that you cannot
fight the system.
[scoffs]
But if, as you say,
the truth is fluid
that the truth is subjective..
...then maybe
you can fight the system..
...as long as just one person
refuses to be broken
refuses...to bow down.
But can you win?
Every time I say no.
Captain John Sheridan,
will you or will you not
sign a confession and endorse it
before a public hearing?
No.
[dramatic music]
[grunting]
Do you understand that
this is your last chance?
this is your very last chance?
Room 17.
Almighty God, look upon your
servant lying in great weakness
and comfort him,
deliver him from all evil
and set him free
from every bond.
No man lives to himself,
and no man dies to himself.
If we live, we live unto God.
If we die, we die unto God.
Therefore into your hands,
we commend your servant
a sheep of your own fold,
a lamb of your own flock.
Receive him into the arms
of your mercy.
May his soul rest in peace.
Amen.
What? What?
[groans]
Good morning.
Now, before we begin
your interrogation
'I'll need some information.'
'Do you have any allergies
or illnesses'
'that I should know about?'
'Are you currently taking
any medication?'
'Had any trouble
with your heart?'
'You'll answer my questions
when they are asked.'
'Resistance will be punished.
Cooperation will be rewarded.'
'Do you have any illnesses
or allergies'
that I should know about?
Are you currently
taking any medication?
Have you had any trouble
with your heart?
'You'll answer my questions
when they are asked.'
'Resistance will be punished,
cooperation will be rewarded.'
'Do you have any allergies
or illnesses'
'that I should know about?'
'Are you currently
taking any medication?'
'Have you had any trouble
with your heart?'
'You will answer my questions
when they are asked.'
Resistance will be punished.
Cooperation will be rewarded.
[theme music]